README.md, before:

# Lavalink Server

## Installing Lavalink Server on Ubuntu

This guide will help you install the LavaLink server on an Ubuntu system. LavaLink is a Java application, so you'll need to have Java installed on your system.

### Step-by-Step Guide

#### Step 1: Update Your System

First, update your system to ensure you have the most recent packages:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y
```

#### Step 2: Install Java

LavaLink requires Java. Install it with:

```bash
sudo apt install openjdk-11-jre-headless -y
```

Verify the installation with:

```bash
java -version
```

#### Step 3: Download LavaLink

Download the latest LavaLink.jar file from the LavaLink GitHub repository:

```bash
wget https://github.com/DFanso/lavalink-server/blob/main/Lavalink.jar
```

#### Step 4: Create a LavaLink Configuration File

LavaLink requires a configuration file named `application.yml`. Create this file in the same directory as your LavaLink.jar file:

```bash
nano application.yml
```

Copy the following configuration into `application.yml`:

```yaml
server:
  port: 8080
  address: 0.0.0.0
lavalink:
  server:
    password: "your_password_here"
    sources:
      youtube: true
      bandcamp: true
      soundcloud: true
      twitch: true
      vimeo: true
      http: true
    bufferDurationMs: 4000
    youtubePlaylistLoadLimit: 6
    playerUpdateInterval: 5
    youtubeSearchEnabled: true
    soundcloudSearchEnabled: true
metrics:
  prometheus:
    enabled: false
    endpoint: /metrics
  influx:
    enabled: false
    dbName: lavalink
    hostname: localhost
    port: 8086
    username: admin
    password: password
```

Replace `"your_password_here"` with a secure password of your choice.

#### Step 5: Run LavaLink

Run LavaLink with:

```bash
java -jar Lavalink.jar
```

To run it in the background, use `screen`:

```bash
screen -S LavaLink
java -jar Lavalink.jar
```

Detach from the screen session with `CTRL+A` then `D`. Re-attach with `screen -r LavaLink`.

### Running LavaLink 24/7

To keep LavaLink running continuously, use `systemd`.

#### Step 1: Create a systemd Service File

Create a service file for LavaLink:

```bash
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/lavalink.service
```

Add the following configuration:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=LavaLink
After=network.target

[Service]
User=your_username
WorkingDirectory=/path/to/your/lavalink/directory
ExecStart=/usr/bin/java -jar Lavalink.jar
SuccessExitStatus=143
TimeoutStopSec=10
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Replace `your_username` with your actual username and `/path/to/your/lavalink/directory` with the path to your LavaLink directory.

#### Step 2: Enable and Start the Service

Enable and start the service:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable lavalink.service
sudo systemctl start lavalink.service
```

Check the status of the service:

```bash
sudo systemctl status lavalink.service
```

### Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues, ensure the path and permissions are correct. The user specified should have access to the LavaLink directory. If your `Lavalink.jar` is in the root directory, adjust the service file accordingly:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=LavaLink
After=network.target

[Service]
User=root
WorkingDirectory=/root
ExecStart=/usr/bin/java -jar /root/Lavalink.jar
SuccessExitStatus=143
TimeoutStopSec=10
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Reload the systemd daemon and restart the service after any changes:

```bash
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl restart lavalink.service
```

### Checking LavaLink Status

1. **Check Logs:**

   ```bash
   journalctl -u lavalink.service
   ```

2. **Check Service Status:**

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl status lavalink.service
   ```

3. **Check Open Ports:**

   ```bash
   sudo netstat -tuln | grep 8080
   ```

   If `netstat` is not installed, install it with:

   ```bash
   sudo apt install net-tools
   ```

4. **Connect a Bot:** Ensure your bot can connect to the LavaLink server and play tracks without issues.

By following these steps, you should have a running LavaLink server on your Ubuntu system.

Commit message:

add read me and auto install script

README.md, after:

# Lavalink Server

## Installing Lavalink Server on Ubuntu

This guide will help you install the LavaLink server on an Ubuntu system. LavaLink is a Java application, so you'll need to have Java installed on your system.

### How to Use the Script

1. Save the script to a file, for example `install_lavalink.sh`.
2. Make the script executable:
    
    ```bash
    chmod +x install_lavalink.sh
    
    ```
    
3. Run the script with `sudo`:
    
    ```bash
    sudo ./install_lavalink.sh
    
    ```
    

This script will update your system, install Java, download the LavaLink JAR file, create the necessary configuration files, set up the systemd service, and start the LavaLink server. Make sure to replace `"dfanso"` in the configuration file with a secure password of your choice.

### Step-by-Step Guide

#### Step 1: Update Your System

First, update your system to ensure you have the most recent packages:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y
```

#### Step 2: Install Java

LavaLink requires Java. Install it with:

```bash
sudo apt install openjdk-11-jre-headless -y
```

Verify the installation with:

```bash
java -version
```

#### Step 3: Download LavaLink

Download the latest LavaLink.jar file from the LavaLink GitHub repository:

```bash
wget https://github.com/DFanso/lavalink-server/blob/main/Lavalink.jar
```

#### Step 4: Create a LavaLink Configuration File

LavaLink requires a configuration file named `application.yml`. Create this file in the same directory as your LavaLink.jar file:

```bash
nano application.yml
```

Copy the following configuration into `application.yml`:

```yaml
server:
  port: 8080
  address: 0.0.0.0
lavalink:
  server:
    password: "your_password_here"
    sources:
      youtube: true
      bandcamp: true
      soundcloud: true
      twitch: true
      vimeo: true
      http: true
    bufferDurationMs: 4000
    youtubePlaylistLoadLimit: 6
    playerUpdateInterval: 5
    youtubeSearchEnabled: true
    soundcloudSearchEnabled: true
metrics:
  prometheus:
    enabled: false
    endpoint: /metrics
  influx:
    enabled: false
    dbName: lavalink
    hostname: localhost
    port: 8086
    username: admin
    password: password
```

Replace `"your_password_here"` with a secure password of your choice.

#### Step 5: Run LavaLink

Run LavaLink with:

```bash
java -jar Lavalink.jar
```

To run it in the background, use `screen`:

```bash
screen -S LavaLink
java -jar Lavalink.jar
```

Detach from the screen session with `CTRL+A` then `D`. Re-attach with `screen -r LavaLink`.

### Running LavaLink 24/7

To keep LavaLink running continuously, use `systemd`.

#### Step 1: Create a systemd Service File

Create a service file for LavaLink:

```bash
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/lavalink.service
```

Add the following configuration:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=LavaLink
After=network.target

[Service]
User=your_username
WorkingDirectory=/path/to/your/lavalink/directory
ExecStart=/usr/bin/java -jar Lavalink.jar
SuccessExitStatus=143
TimeoutStopSec=10
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Replace `your_username` with your actual username and `/path/to/your/lavalink/directory` with the path to your LavaLink directory.

#### Step 2: Enable and Start the Service

Enable and start the service:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable lavalink.service
sudo systemctl start lavalink.service
```

Check the status of the service:

```bash
sudo systemctl status lavalink.service
```

### Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues, ensure the path and permissions are correct. The user specified should have access to the LavaLink directory. If your `Lavalink.jar` is in the root directory, adjust the service file accordingly:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=LavaLink
After=network.target

[Service]
User=root
WorkingDirectory=/root
ExecStart=/usr/bin/java -jar /root/Lavalink.jar
SuccessExitStatus=143
TimeoutStopSec=10
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Reload the systemd daemon and restart the service after any changes:

```bash
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl restart lavalink.service
```

### Checking LavaLink Status

1. **Check Logs:**

   ```bash
   journalctl -u lavalink.service
   ```

2. **Check Service Status:**

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl status lavalink.service
   ```

3. **Check Open Ports:**

   ```bash
   sudo netstat -tuln | grep 8080
   ```

   If `netstat` is not installed, install it with:

   ```bash
   sudo apt install net-tools
   ```

4. **Connect a Bot:** Ensure your bot can connect to the LavaLink server and play tracks without issues.

By following these steps, you should have a running LavaLink server on your Ubuntu system.
